Add documentation about migrating to another zone (#785)
CleverCloud/doc.clever-cloud.com: administrate/zone-migration.md

---
title: Zone Migration
tags:
- migration
- zone
- application
- addon
---

# Migrate your services from one zone to another

In this document, we will see how you can migrate your Clever Cloud services from one zone to another zone, for example from Paris to Montreal.

For most of the services, you will be able to migrate them as-is. For others, you will need to create them and do a manual migration.

> Keep in mind that our support team remains available should you have any questions regarding zone migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that our support team remains available, should you have any questions regarding zone migration.
```

## Application migration

> Most of the applications will be able to be migrated without issues. If your application matches any criteria is in the list below, you will need extra steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the applications will migrate without issues. If one of your applications matches any criteria is in the list below, you will need extra steps
```

using `to migrate` figuratively is okay I reckon.

described in the following sub-sections.

- Any application that uses a FSBucket add-on
- PHP applications

> If your application matches any criterias on this list, please read the prerequisites below first and then follow the right sub-section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, please read the prerequisites below first and then follow the right sub-section.
```
redundancy

### Prerequisites

Besides redeploying your application in your target zone, you have to keep a few things in mind:
- Increased latency might be observed during DNS propagation (more below)

> - You will need to update your DNS settings so make sure you have access to your DNS registrar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You will need to update your DNS settings, so make sure you have access to your DNS registrar
```

> One of the first things you can do is to lower your DNS records TTL (time to live). in order to speed up the DNS propagation during the update of your domains DNS records.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the first things you can do is to lower your DNS records TTL (time to live). In order to speed up the DNS propagation during the update of your domains DNS records.
```

> One of the first things you can do is to lower your DNS records TTL (time to live) to speed up the DNS propagation when you will update your domains DNS records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the first things you can do is to lower your DNS records TTL (time to live). in order to speed up the DNS propagation during the update of your domains DNS records.
```

On your registrar's interface, find your application's domain. Usually, the DNS record will be `domain.tld IN CNAME domain.<current-zone>.clever-cloud.com` with a certain TTL.

> Update that TTL to 60 seconds instead and wait for this change to propagate (wait as much time as the old TTL value). This change will allow a faster DNS propagation when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit that TTL to 60 seconds instead of the existing value, and wait for this change to propagate (wait as much time as the old TTL value). This change will allow a faster DNS propagation when
```

> you will have to update the `CNAME` record value to `domain.<target-zone>.clever-cloud.com`, lowering the amount of time your users will experience an increased latency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you have to update the `CNAME` record value to `domain.<target-zone>.clever-cloud.com`, lowering the amount of time your users will experience an increased latency.
```

{{< alert "info" "Note" >}}
After the migration, you can set back your old TTL value.
{{< /alert >}}

#### Increased latency

> Once your application has been redeployed to your target zone, your application's domain will still have its DNS pointing to the old zone. As a consequence, it

Author: ```suggestion
Once your application has been redeployed to your target zone, your application's domain will still have its DNS pointing to the old zone. As a consequence, the
```

> Once your application has been redeployed to your target zone, your application's domain will still have its DNS pointing to the old zone. As a consequence, it

Reviewer: As a consequence, the latency may increase for your users.

> may increase the latency for your users. For example, if you are migrating from Paris (PAR) to Montreal (MTL), your visitors will connect to our Paris infrastructure, which will

Author: ```suggestion
latency may increase for your users. For example, if you are migrating from Paris (PAR) to Montreal (MTL), your visitors will connect to our Paris infrastructure, which will
```

> may increase the latency for your users. For example, if you are migrating from Paris (PAR) to Montreal (MTL), your visitors will connect to our Paris infrastructure that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
may increase the latency for your users. For example, if you are migrating from Paris (PAR) to Montreal (MTL), your visitors will connect to our Paris infrastructure, which will
```

> then redirect the trafic to our Montreal infrastructure, leading to requests taking more time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then redirect the traffic to our Montreal infrastructure, leading requests to take more time.
```

> then redirect the trafic on our Montreal infrastructure, leading to requests taking more time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then redirect the trafic to our Montreal infrastructure, leading to requests taking more time.
```

You might also experience an increased latency between your application and other services (like a PostgreSQL add-on for example). If your application has switched to the Montreal zone

> and your PostgreSQL add-on is still in Paris, your application will need extract time to query the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and your PostgreSQL add-on is still in Paris, your application will need extra time to query the database.
```

#### DNS updates

Once your application has been migrated to your target zone, you will find in the `Domain names` section the new `A` and `CNAME` DNS records to use for your application's domains.

> If you were using `A` records, update the records (there might be more or fewer of them than what you had previously, this is normal). If you used a `CNAME` record, simply change the value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you were using `A` records, update the records (there might be more or fewer of them than what you had previously, this is normal). If you used a `CNAME` record, simply changes the value.
```

Author: This doesn't feel right, I'm omitting it!

> If you were using `A` records, update the records (there might be more or less than what you had previously, this is normal). If you used a `CNAME` record, simply change the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were using `A` records, update the records (there might be more or fewer of them than what you had previously, this is normal). If you used a `CNAME` record, simply change the value.
```

> Once done, it will take as much time to propagate as to what value was defined your TTL for that record. If you followed the prerequisites above, it should take a few minutes tops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once done, it will take as much time to propagate as the TTL defined for that record. If you followed the prerequisites above, it should take a few minutes tops.
```
not sure about that one, I' didn't understand it

### Migration

> If your application doesn't match any criteria of the list in the `Application migration` section, then you can go to the `Information` pane of your application and under the `Zone` label, chose your target zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your application doesn't match any criteria of the list in the `Application migration` section, then you can go to the `Information` pane of your application. Under the `Zone` label, chose your target zone.
```

Once selected, you can save your changes using the `Save` button at the bottom of the page.

After saving, you can now redeploy your application in the `Overview`, it will redeploy on the new zone.

### Applications using an FSBucket

> FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you can't use a FSBucket add-on hosted on Paris if your application is on Montreal.

Author: ```suggestion
FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you can not use an FSBucket add-on hosted in Paris, if your application is in Montreal.
```

> FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you can not use an FSBucket add-on hosted in Paris, if your application is in Montreal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you cannot use an FSBucket add-on hosted in Paris, if your application is in Montreal.
```

> FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you can' use a FSBucket add-on hosted on Paris if your application is on Montreal.

Author: ```suggestion
FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you can't use a FSBucket add-on hosted on Paris if your application is on Montreal.
```

> FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you can' use a FSBucket add-on hosted on Paris if your application is on Montreal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FSBuckets can only be mounted by applications on the same zone. This means that you can not use an FSBucket add-on hosted in Paris, if your application is in Montreal.
```

To migrate FSBuckets, see the [section below](#fsbucket).

### PHP Applications

> Due to technical reasons, a PHP application can't be migrated to another zone. In this case, you will have to re-create the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of technical reasons, a PHP application can not be migrated to another zone. In this case, you will have to re-create the application.
```

> When domains will be switched to the old application to the new one, a small downtime may occur. 404 or 503 errors might happen for a few seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When domains are switched from the old application to the new one, a small downtime may occur. 404 or 503 errors might happen for a few seconds.
```

First, create a new PHP application on your target zone.
Then, you can easily copy / paste the environment variable from the old application to the new one using the `Expert mode` of our environment variables interface.

> Don't forget to link any services that are linked to your old application. Linking multiple times the same service to different application doesn't cause any issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to link all services that were linked to your old application. Linking multiple times the same service to different application doesn't cause any issue.
```
pick one:

-  to a different application
-  to different applications

> Make sure the Scalability section of your application is the same as the old one as well as the various options (HTTPS redirection, build cache, ...) you can find in the `Information pane`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure the Scalability section of your application is the same as the old one, as well as the various optionsyou can find in the `Information pane` (HTTPS redirection, build cache, ...).
```

> Once everything is setup again, we can push the code. If you are using Git, you can find the new Git URL in the `Information` pane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once everything is setup again, we can push the code. If you are using Git, you can find the new Git URL in the `Information` panel.
```

If you are using FTP, please read the [FSBucket migration section](#fsbucket).

> Your new application should now be deployed. You can now update the domain names: for each domain on your old application, delete the domain and add it to the new application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your new application should now be deployed. You can update the domain names: for each domain of your old application, delete it and add it to the new application.
```

You can use the CLI to do it and minimize the downtime:

```shell
clever -a <old-application-alias> domain rm <domain>; clever -a <new-application-alias> domain add <domain>
```

You can now update your DNS as described in the [DNS updates](#dns-updates) section.

## Add-on migration

Add-ons can be migrated from one zone to another. For some of them, our support team can help you do it.

### PostgreSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Redis

> Those add-ons can be migrated using the [Migration Tool]({{< ref "/administrate/database-migration" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These add-ons can be migrated using the [Migration Tool]({{< ref "/administrate/database-migration" >}}).
```

> Once your migration is over, services connecting to the add-on might be impacted by an increased latency due to DNS updates. The domain of your add-on will have its DNS records

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your migration is over, the services connecting to the add-on might be impacted by an increased latency due to DNS updates. The domain of your add-on will have its DNS records
```
